The All Blacks, New Zealand’s national rugby team, is widely credited for bringing the “haka” to the world stage. Immediately before kick-off, the whole team will issue a warlike chant, stamping their feet, slapping their thighs, rolling their eyes, flicking their tongues, and making aggressive gestures in unison. This performance before each match, which is intended to heighten their morale and intimidate opponents, is a sight to behold. No other international sporting team possesses a pre-match ritual as powerful as the famed All Blacks haka.


  What does “haka” mean? Haka is often thought of as a broad term for Māori war dances traditionally used to intimidate the enemy and prepare the warriors for battle. Most people believe it was performed either on the battlefield prior to engaging the enemy, or as the warriors were leaving their own village en route to a battle. But in the language of Māori, the word haka simply means a dance. The dance is accompanied by a chant that expresses emotions or tells ancient stories. While many haka should be performed by males, there are some haka that can be performed by anyone, male or female. There are even some women-only haka. 


  Thanks to the All Blacks, two of the haka have become widely renowned: Ka Mate and Kapa o Pango. The former was composed by a Māori chief in the early 1800s about how he outsmarted his enemies. It was first performed by the All Blacks in 1906. The latter was written specifically for the team in 2005. They are now performed interchangeably by the All Blacks. 


  Today, different varieties of haka are performed on various ceremonial occasions—from receiving distinguished guests to birthdays, weddings, or the funerals of chiefs and people of high status. Though the practice had traditionally been limited to Māori communities, it has now spread far beyond that. Māori and New Zealanders of European heritage alike view doing the haka with a sense of pride, both on the rugby field and outside it. The haka has become the most recognizable symbol of New Zealanders as a people.